My wife is very interested in the family history of her and my family lines and about genealogy in general since we come from Ukraine and Russia and Ukrainian people were devastated by wars and starwing for centuries, not only by the enemies but by its own state. She uses a number of public web sites to search for information as well as simply go to government archives, order search of paper registry books from the limited catalog, wait weeks and then manually record historical data from paper books as photography is not allowed of such data as given name and family name, birth and death dates and birth and death places, marriages. She needed an application or database accessible from around the world, from laptop or a phone, where she could securely store these unsorted and unlinked bits of information with lots of unknown until she found more data about these people. Most public sites do not allow you to add random people to your personal data as you need to specifically link them to some existing person in your data, and you simply can't do it if you have only personal information from the grave in the cemetery, where you only know it's your family name. They are also not completely free and also there is privacy concern, that sites like family search are heavily integrated with churches that own data you entered and then sell data you entered to 3-rd party vendors and we don't agree to that. So I developed a simple looking yet powerful web application that allows users to enter personal data about random people and when needed link this data to somebody else as a family member.
Site has a register function that uses industry standard ways of hashing passwords, so many users can login to the site and currently the site does not limit users from seeing entered information per user account as we want our kids to have the same level of access to the data that we currently have in our own local instance of application. It uses 2 separate tables in the database to store personal information such as given name and family name, birth and death dates and birth and death places and parent relationships like a row of person and mother and father id’s. that allows to independently get  parents data and children data if it exists in the database for a selected person. It took me some time to understand why I get 400 errors on add person operations and how foreign keys work in the database between two tables, when all father and mother id’s in parent table is actually linked to person id’s of person but it proved to be very useful since I understood that I can't set parental data for the person id that does not already exist in the person table in the database, this gives me additional level of protection from errors that data mixing might introduce. I needed to implement some clever logic to allow adding people without or with only partial parent information since I selected that id’s cant be NULL and I was getting empty data from the user submitted forms. So based on the amount of data I got after a number of checks the system uses different sql insert queries to store partial parental information. I also added some usability features as a search based on given name or family name and it was the most used feature while we were testing the prototype on small amounts of data. I does not support wildcards though.
I was seriously impressed that it was easy to make a basic frame for the system using Flask. I spent 4 evenings writing the whole site and data storage. With these two separate GET and POST methods for each page route I was able to achieve interesting results where I could preload data for the users on the pages using the get method on the page route and then using the same page template but with the post method I could push new modified data to the server. I used this functionality on the add person page to allow users to select a person's parent information from predefined sorted by gender ordered by date lists based on actual data that user already added to the system or on edit page same principle apply to show only those people from the list who are older than the person users might be editing right now.

